SKILL.md, before:

# Solana Blinks Skill

> Execute Solana DeFi transactions through the native Actions specification

**New here?** → Start with [QUICKSTART.md](./QUICKSTART.md) for a 10-minute setup guide.

---

## What This Does

Solana Blinks (Blockchain Links) let you execute DeFi operations—swaps, deposits, staking—through simple URLs. This skill gives you:

- **CLI** for quick operations: `blinks execute <url> --amount=100`
- **SDK** for building automations
- **Registry access** to 900+ trusted protocol endpoints

```bash
# Example: Deposit USDC to Kamino yield vault
blinks execute "https://kamino.dial.to/api/v0/lend/usdc-main/deposit" --amount=100
```

---

## ⚠️ Before You Start

### Required
- [ ] Solana wallet keypair file (see [QUICKSTART.md](./QUICKSTART.md#step-1-create-a-solana-wallet))
- [ ] SOL for transaction fees (~0.01 SOL / $2 minimum)
- [ ] Node.js 18+

### Environment Variables
```bash
# .env file
SOLANA_RPC_URL=https://api.mainnet-beta.solana.com
SOLANA_WALLET_PATH=~/.config/solana/my-wallet.json
```

### 🔒 Security
- **Never commit keypairs to git** - use `.env` and `.gitignore`
- **Test with small amounts first** - mistakes happen
- **Verify hosts are trusted** - CLI warns about untrusted hosts
- **Use a dedicated wallet** - not your main holdings

---

## Protocol Status (Updated 2026-02-01)

### ✅ Working

| Protocol | Actions | Endpoint |
|----------|---------|----------|
| **Kamino** | Deposit, withdraw, borrow, repay | `kamino.dial.to` |
| **Jito** | Stake SOL | `jito.network`, `jito.dial.to` |
| **Tensor** | Buy floor, bid on NFTs | `tensor.dial.to` |
| **Drift** | Vault deposit/withdraw | `app.drift.trade` |

### 🔑 Needs API Key

| Protocol | Get Key | Notes |
|----------|---------|-------|
| **Lulo** | [dev.lulo.fi](https://dev.lulo.fi) | 24hr withdrawal cooldown |
| **Jupiter** | [portal.jup.ag](https://portal.jup.ag) | Free tier deprecated Jan 2026 |

### ❌ Currently Broken

| Protocol | Issue | Workaround |
|----------|-------|------------|
| **Sanctum** | Cloudflare blocks server IPs | Use their web UI |
| **Some dial.to** | Rate limiting | Try self-hosted endpoints |

### ❓ Untested

MarginFi, Orca, Meteora, Helius, Raydium - endpoints exist but need verification.

---

## Quick Reference

### Inspect Before Executing

Always preview what a blink does:

```bash
blinks inspect <url>
```

Shows metadata, available actions, and trust status.

### Execute Transactions

```bash
# Dry run first (simulates without sending)
blinks execute <url> --amount=100 --dry-run

# Execute for real
blinks execute <url> --amount=100
```

### Protocol-Specific Commands

```bash
# Kamino
blinks kamino deposit --vault=usdc-main --amount=100
blinks kamino withdraw --vault=usdc-main --amount=50

# Jito
blinks jito stake --amount=1

# Generic (any blink URL)
blinks execute "https://..." --amount=X
```

---

## SDK Usage

```typescript
import {
  ActionsClient,
  BlinksExecutor,
  Wallet,
  getConnection,
  isHostTrusted,
} from '@openclaw/solana-blinks';

// Initialize
const connection = getConnection();
const wallet = Wallet.fromEnv();
const actions = new ActionsClient();
const executor = new BlinksExecutor(connection);

// 1. Check if host is trusted
const trusted = await isHostTrusted('https://kamino.dial.to');
if (!trusted) throw new Error('Untrusted host!');

// 2. Get action metadata
const metadata = await actions.getAction(
  'https://kamino.dial.to/api/v0/lend/usdc-main/deposit'
);
console.log('Available actions:', metadata.links.actions);

// 3. Get transaction
const tx = await actions.postAction(
  'https://kamino.dial.to/api/v0/lend/usdc-main/deposit?amount=100',
  wallet.address
);

// 4. Simulate first
const sim = await executor.simulate(tx);
if (!sim.success) {
  throw new Error(`Simulation failed: ${sim.error}`);
}

// 5. Execute
const signature = await executor.signAndSend(tx, wallet.getSigner());
console.log('Success:', `https://solscan.io/tx/${signature}`);
```

---

## How Blinks Work

1. **GET** request to action URL → Returns metadata + available actions
2. **POST** request with wallet address → Returns transaction to sign
3. Sign transaction locally and submit to Solana

```
User → GET blink URL → Protocol returns actions
User → POST with wallet → Protocol returns transaction
User → Sign & submit → Transaction confirmed
```

The skill handles all of this. You just provide the URL and amount.

---

## Troubleshooting

| Error | Cause | Fix |
|-------|-------|-----|
| `422 Unprocessable Entity` | Missing required tokens | Check token balance before deposit |
| `403 Forbidden` | Cloudflare blocking | Try protocol's self-hosted endpoint |
| `Transaction simulation failed` | Insufficient SOL or stale tx | Check balance, retry quickly |
| `Rate limit exceeded` | Public RPC overloaded | Use Helius/QuickNode free tier |
| `Untrusted host warning` | Host not in Dialect registry | Verify URL is correct |

---

## Blink URL Formats

The CLI accepts multiple formats:

```bash
# Direct URL (recommended)
blinks inspect "https://kamino.dial.to/api/v0/lend/usdc/deposit"

# Solana Action protocol
blinks inspect "solana-action:https://kamino.dial.to/..."

# dial.to interstitial
blinks inspect "https://dial.to/?action=solana-action:https://..."
```

---

## RPC Recommendations

| Provider | Free Tier | Link |
|----------|-----------|------|
| **Helius** | 100k req/day | [helius.dev](https://helius.dev) |
| **QuickNode** | 10M credits | [quicknode.com](https://quicknode.com) |
| **Alchemy** | 300M CU | [alchemy.com](https://alchemy.com) |
| **Public** | Rate limited | `api.mainnet-beta.solana.com` |

Public works for testing but will hit rate limits in production.

---

## Files

```
solana-blinks-skill/
├── SKILL.md           # This file
├── QUICKSTART.md      # Beginner setup guide
├── README.md          # Package readme
├── .env.example       # Environment template
├── src/               # Source code
├── dist/              # Built CLI + SDK
├── docs/              # Protocol status, specs
└── tests/             # Protocol endpoint tests
```

---

## Links

- [QUICKSTART.md](./QUICKSTART.md) - Get started in 10 minutes
- [Solana Actions Spec](https://solana.com/developers/guides/advanced/actions)
- [Dialect Registry](https://actions-registry.dial.to/all) - 900+ trusted hosts
- [Blinks Inspector](https://www.blinks.xyz/inspector) - Visual blink tester

Commit message:

chore: Rename to solana-agent-toolkit
- Rename package from @openclaw/solana-blinks to @openclaw/solana-agent-toolkit
- Update CLI binaries: solana-toolkit, solana-agent (blinks still works for compat)
- Update all docs and imports
- Bump version to 1.1.0

Blinks is an implementation detail - this is a full Solana DeFi toolkit for AI agents.

SKILL.md, after:

# Solana Agent Toolkit

> DeFi toolkit for AI agents on Solana — swaps, lending, staking, and more

**New here?** → Start with [QUICKSTART.md](./QUICKSTART.md) for a 10-minute setup guide.

---

## What This Does

Solana Blinks (Blockchain Links) let you execute DeFi operations—swaps, deposits, staking—through simple URLs. This skill gives you:

- **CLI** for quick operations: `blinks execute <url> --amount=100`
- **SDK** for building automations
- **Registry access** to 900+ trusted protocol endpoints

```bash
# Example: Deposit USDC to Kamino yield vault
blinks execute "https://kamino.dial.to/api/v0/lend/usdc-main/deposit" --amount=100
```

---

## ⚠️ Before You Start

### Required
- [ ] Solana wallet keypair file (see [QUICKSTART.md](./QUICKSTART.md#step-1-create-a-solana-wallet))
- [ ] SOL for transaction fees (~0.01 SOL / $2 minimum)
- [ ] Node.js 18+

### Environment Variables
```bash
# .env file
SOLANA_RPC_URL=https://api.mainnet-beta.solana.com
SOLANA_WALLET_PATH=~/.config/solana/my-wallet.json
```

### 🔒 Security
- **Never commit keypairs to git** - use `.env` and `.gitignore`
- **Test with small amounts first** - mistakes happen
- **Verify hosts are trusted** - CLI warns about untrusted hosts
- **Use a dedicated wallet** - not your main holdings

---

## Protocol Status (Updated 2026-02-01)

### ✅ Working

| Protocol | Actions | Endpoint |
|----------|---------|----------|
| **Kamino** | Deposit, withdraw, borrow, repay | `kamino.dial.to` |
| **Jito** | Stake SOL | `jito.network`, `jito.dial.to` |
| **Tensor** | Buy floor, bid on NFTs | `tensor.dial.to` |
| **Drift** | Vault deposit/withdraw | `app.drift.trade` |

### 🔑 Needs API Key

| Protocol | Get Key | Notes |
|----------|---------|-------|
| **Lulo** | [dev.lulo.fi](https://dev.lulo.fi) | 24hr withdrawal cooldown |
| **Jupiter** | [portal.jup.ag](https://portal.jup.ag) | Free tier deprecated Jan 2026 |

### ❌ Currently Broken

| Protocol | Issue | Workaround |
|----------|-------|------------|
| **Sanctum** | Cloudflare blocks server IPs | Use their web UI |
| **Some dial.to** | Rate limiting | Try self-hosted endpoints |

### ❓ Untested

MarginFi, Orca, Meteora, Helius, Raydium - endpoints exist but need verification.

---

## Quick Reference

### Inspect Before Executing

Always preview what a blink does:

```bash
blinks inspect <url>
```

Shows metadata, available actions, and trust status.

### Execute Transactions

```bash
# Dry run first (simulates without sending)
blinks execute <url> --amount=100 --dry-run

# Execute for real
blinks execute <url> --amount=100
```

### Protocol-Specific Commands

```bash
# Kamino
blinks kamino deposit --vault=usdc-main --amount=100
blinks kamino withdraw --vault=usdc-main --amount=50

# Jito
blinks jito stake --amount=1

# Generic (any blink URL)
blinks execute "https://..." --amount=X
```

---

## SDK Usage

```typescript
import {
  ActionsClient,
  BlinksExecutor,
  Wallet,
  getConnection,
  isHostTrusted,
} from '@openclaw/solana-agent-toolkit';

// Initialize
const connection = getConnection();
const wallet = Wallet.fromEnv();
const actions = new ActionsClient();
const executor = new BlinksExecutor(connection);

// 1. Check if host is trusted
const trusted = await isHostTrusted('https://kamino.dial.to');
if (!trusted) throw new Error('Untrusted host!');

// 2. Get action metadata
const metadata = await actions.getAction(
  'https://kamino.dial.to/api/v0/lend/usdc-main/deposit'
);
console.log('Available actions:', metadata.links.actions);

// 3. Get transaction
const tx = await actions.postAction(
  'https://kamino.dial.to/api/v0/lend/usdc-main/deposit?amount=100',
  wallet.address
);

// 4. Simulate first
const sim = await executor.simulate(tx);
if (!sim.success) {
  throw new Error(`Simulation failed: ${sim.error}`);
}

// 5. Execute
const signature = await executor.signAndSend(tx, wallet.getSigner());
console.log('Success:', `https://solscan.io/tx/${signature}`);
```

---

## How Blinks Work

1. **GET** request to action URL → Returns metadata + available actions
2. **POST** request with wallet address → Returns transaction to sign
3. Sign transaction locally and submit to Solana

```
User → GET blink URL → Protocol returns actions
User → POST with wallet → Protocol returns transaction
User → Sign & submit → Transaction confirmed
```

The skill handles all of this. You just provide the URL and amount.

---

## Troubleshooting

| Error | Cause | Fix |
|-------|-------|-----|
| `422 Unprocessable Entity` | Missing required tokens | Check token balance before deposit |
| `403 Forbidden` | Cloudflare blocking | Try protocol's self-hosted endpoint |
| `Transaction simulation failed` | Insufficient SOL or stale tx | Check balance, retry quickly |
| `Rate limit exceeded` | Public RPC overloaded | Use Helius/QuickNode free tier |
| `Untrusted host warning` | Host not in Dialect registry | Verify URL is correct |

---

## Blink URL Formats

The CLI accepts multiple formats:

```bash
# Direct URL (recommended)
blinks inspect "https://kamino.dial.to/api/v0/lend/usdc/deposit"

# Solana Action protocol
blinks inspect "solana-action:https://kamino.dial.to/..."

# dial.to interstitial
blinks inspect "https://dial.to/?action=solana-action:https://..."
```

---

## RPC Recommendations

| Provider | Free Tier | Link |
|----------|-----------|------|
| **Helius** | 100k req/day | [helius.dev](https://helius.dev) |
| **QuickNode** | 10M credits | [quicknode.com](https://quicknode.com) |
| **Alchemy** | 300M CU | [alchemy.com](https://alchemy.com) |
| **Public** | Rate limited | `api.mainnet-beta.solana.com` |

Public works for testing but will hit rate limits in production.

---

## Files

```
solana-agent-toolkit/
├── SKILL.md           # This file
├── QUICKSTART.md      # Beginner setup guide
├── README.md          # Package readme
├── .env.example       # Environment template
├── src/               # Source code
├── dist/              # Built CLI + SDK
├── docs/              # Protocol status, specs
└── tests/             # Protocol endpoint tests
```

---

## Links

- [QUICKSTART.md](./QUICKSTART.md) - Get started in 10 minutes
- [Solana Actions Spec](https://solana.com/developers/guides/advanced/actions)
- [Dialect Registry](https://actions-registry.dial.to/all) - 900+ trusted hosts
- [Blinks Inspector](https://www.blinks.xyz/inspector) - Visual blink tester
